README.md, before:

---
share: true
aliases:
  - Gaylor
---
# Welcome to the Gaylor Vault!
This is a **community-run wiki**, written in [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md)-flavoured markdown and hosted on [Github](https://github.com/dykeaura/gaylor-vault) (private currently). It's also published to [Github Pages](https://dykeaura.github.io/gaylor-wiki) using a plugin for Obsidian called [Github Publisher](https://github.com/ObsidianPublisher/obsidian-github-publisher).

That may have sounded like a jumble of garbage to you, and I'm sorry. You're probably here because of our, um... *topic of interest*, gaylor.

Well then, you might be looking for a page about miss [[Taylor Swift]] herself, or perhaps one of the "ships", hmm? [[Kaylor]], [[Swiftgron]], [[Tayliz]]...

Is there a chance you don't know what "gaylor" is? In that case, you got here somehow, probably by someone sending you a link. That means they want you to know about it, and they want you to learn it from me. That's kind of intimidating, but here goes....

The origins of the name should help. It's a combination of the words "gay" and "Taylor". Get it yet? Gaylor describes both the theory that Taylor Swift is queer, and also the people who believe it. (aka, the people writing this wiki)

The wiki aims to be a sort of "one-stop-shop" for all your gaylor needs. Evidence, theories, archives of important moments in gaylor history, etc. In fact, it doesn't even need to be directly linked to gaylor! Anything you think might be relevant to this community is fine as long as it isn't hurting anybody. If somebody disagrees, they can mention it before it gets merged in, there'll be a discussion, and at the end you'll come out (haha) with a conclusion.

If there's something specific you're looking for, you could try the search. Or perhaps it doesn't exist yet, and in that case I would suggest visiting the [[CONTRIBUTING]] page, if you'd like to try adding it yourself. Also, if you notice anything off (typos, factually incorrect information, etc), open an [issue](https://github.com/dykeaura/gaylor-vault/issues) about it! You could also make an issue about something you think could/should be added and you don't want to do it yourself (or even if you do and you just want to talk about it first). Really, any sort of (constructive) suggestions are welcome.

Before you interact with others, however, I implore you to read the [[CODE_OF_CONDUCT]], it will help you make better decisions about what is appropriate to say or do in this space.

Commit message:

corrected any instances of the "Github" to capitalize the H

README.md, after:

---
share: true
aliases:
  - Gaylor
---
# Welcome to the Gaylor Vault!
This is a **community-run wiki**, written in [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md)-flavoured markdown and hosted on [GitHub](https://GitHub.com/dykeaura/gaylor-vault). It's also published to [GitHub Pages](https://dykeaura.GitHub.io/gaylor-wiki) using a plugin for Obsidian called [GitHub Publisher](https://GitHub.com/ObsidianPublisher/obsidian-GitHub-publisher).

That may have sounded like a jumble of garbage to you, and I'm sorry. You're probably here because of our, um... *topic of interest*, gaylor.

Well then, you might be looking for a page about miss [[Taylor Swift]] herself, or perhaps one of the "ships", hmm? [[Kaylor]], [[Swiftgron]], [[Tayliz]]...

Is there a chance you don't know what "gaylor" is? In that case, you got here somehow, probably by someone sending you a link. That means they want you to know about it, and they want you to learn it from me. That's kind of intimidating, but here goes....

The origins of the name should help. It's a combination of the words "gay" and "Taylor". Get it yet? Gaylor describes both the theory that Taylor Swift is queer, and also the people who believe it. (aka, the people writing this wiki)

The wiki aims to be a sort of "one-stop-shop" for all your gaylor needs. Evidence, theories, archives of important moments in gaylor history, etc. In fact, it doesn't even need to be directly linked to gaylor! Anything you think might be relevant to this community is fine as long as it isn't hurting anybody. If somebody disagrees, they can mention it before it gets merged in, there'll be a discussion, and at the end you'll come out (haha) with a conclusion.

If there's something specific you're looking for, you could try the search. Or perhaps it doesn't exist yet, and in that case I would suggest visiting the [[CONTRIBUTING]] page, if you'd like to try adding it yourself. Also, if you notice anything off (typos, factually incorrect information, etc), open an [issue](https://GitHub.com/dykeaura/gaylor-vault/issues) about it! You could also make an issue about something you think could/should be added and you don't want to do it yourself (or even if you do and you just want to talk about it first). Really, any sort of (constructive) suggestions are welcome.

Before you interact with others, however, I implore you to read the [[CODE_OF_CONDUCT]], it will help you make better decisions about what is appropriate to say or do in this space.
